SERGIO CUCINELLA:
Hello, everyone.
My name is Sergio
Cucinella, and I'm
a software engineer at the
Android team at Truecaller.
Today I'll talk about
how to build applications
for the fast growing markets.
But before that, allow me to
give you a brief introduction
about Truecaller.
It is a Swedish start-up
headquartered in Stockholm.
And we have three main products.
Truecaller-- it's
an application that
allows you to discover in
real time who is calling you,
even if you don't have the
number in your phone book.
It blocks calls from the
top spammers of your region,
and it allows you to
always have access
to the right information,
people, and businesses
when you need them.
Truedialer-- it's a
phone application.
It enriches your call history
with pictures and names
when they are missing.
And it also allows
you to discover
who you are going to
call before performing
the call itself in case the
number is not in your phone
book.
And finally, Truemessenger--
it is a messaging application
that allows you to
discover in real time who
is sending you messages.
And it automatically
blocks and filters spam
so that your inbox is
always safe and clean.
But back to the
topic-- I'm going
to give you a brief introduction
about the emerging markets,
and then how to create
great experiences for them,
and finally, how the
definition of "free"
can be a little bit
different in those places.
So when companies
and entrepreneurs
want to launch new
products, they usually
think about the west markets,
so North America and the Western
Europe.
And those have a fairly big
amount of potential users.
In fact, at the
end of 2014, there
were 163 million smartphone
users in the United States
and 197 million in
the Western Europe.
And this amount of
users is growing,
but in sort of a moderate way.
What we tend to underestimate
is the potential
that all of the other
markets, actually,
can have on our distribution.
As we can see here, in
China, at the end of 2014,
there were a 522 million
smartphone users,
in India 270 million, and in
the MENA region 122 million.
And we also need to remember
that the next billion
internet users are coming
from those regions.
So they are definitely going to
keep experiencing a huge growth
in terms of users.
It is extremely easy
to build great products
with our brand-new,
high-end devices that
have almost unlimited data
plans on very fast LTE networks.
And we tend to forget
sometimes what's
the norm in emerging markets.
So when it comes to devices,
they are usually dual SIM.
The screens are not very big.
The resolutions
are not very high.
And even the new devices are CPU
and memory constrained-- well,
relatively constrained.
And not everyone can afford
new smartphones, of course.
So there are many
users that actually
buy secondhand devices that are
even more CPU memory and GPU
constrained.
And most likely,
they are not running
the latest version of Android.
And maybe they are not even
going to get any update.
When it comes to data, they
usually have prepaid plans.
They are not very cheap.
So the users use the
connectivity only
when it's extremely needed.
And if we think that
the smartphone might
be the only entry
point to internet,
then it's obvious that they
really care about data usage.
And finally, networks--
they are slow.
3Gs now a norm.
And they are congested.
Even Wi-Fi is slow, because
it's based on slow landline
connections.
And it's not always available.
So how do we build great
experience for those markets?
Well as I said, we cannot
rely on an always on internet
connectivity.
And this means that
we need to enable
the users to open and
at least partially
use the application
when they're offline.
This means that we have to build
some sort or caching layer.
But as I said, the devices
are memory constrained.
So when we do
that, we definitely
need to keep in mind
that the cache should
be proportionate to the
amount of memory that
is available on the device.
It is a good idea to bundle
mdpi and ldpi resources.
Maybe xxx-hdpi are not
fundamental for those markets.
We definitely need to keep in
mind the image download size.
Because that dominates the
data usage of an application.
So we should try to download
the thumbnail and the preview
images and to postpone
as much as possible
the download of a
full-sized image.
And when we do that,
we actually need
to ensure that the
full-sized image is
displayable on the device.
Because it might
be simply too big.
And of course,
prescaling-- it is cheaper
to do it on the server side.
So let's not do
it on the devices,
especially when they're
CPU and GPU constrained.
And on top of that, so since
they are not really powerful,
the devices, we
should definitely
consider the animation
and the transition
that really makes
sense and that's
important for the product.
Because in the end,
it's better to provide
a simple but smooth
interface rather
than a pretty but laggy one.
And finally, localization--
we definitely
should strive to provide
a native experience.
So invest in localization
and in translations.
And now the
definition of "free"--
if we look at these
three applications,
we can see that there are all
freely downloadable on the Play
Store.
But what users from the
emerging markets also look at
is the application size.
So as an example,
a user in India,
by looking at this
application, he
would recognize that
downloading through Caller
costs roughly 2 euro
cents, while downloading
LinkedIn costs almost
four times more that.
And as I said, the users
have prepaid data plans.
So the size is
extremely important.
So size matters.
We should do anything
possible for making sure
that the application size
is as tiny as possible.
Localizations are
great for experience.
But at the same time, they
require quite some space.
And this means that we should
bundle only the localization
that's really critical
for our business
and to make sure that all the
unsupported localization are
removed.
Because they might be bundling
libraries that we are using.
Definitely also we should
remove all the unused resources.
There are some tools
that can help us
with that, like string
resources, and also lint.
We should take advantage
of tinting and color
filtering so that
we can reuse icons.
And we definitely need to
optimise our images and maybe
experiment with
other image formats.
Use ProGuard for
compressing the application
as much as possible.
And finally, third party
libraries-- they are great.
Because they allow
us not to reinvent
the wheel every single time.
But at the same time, they
might take some space.
Therefore, we should
keep an eye on them.
And also it's good to remember
that Google Play services can
be imported modularly.
So we should definitely
take advantage of that.
I hope that this
presentation gave you
a general idea on
how to optimize
your products for
emerging markets,
and that if you are
not already doing it,
you will start considering it.
Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]